Add Documentation for Sending Node.js Pino Logs to SigNoz (#1033)
SigNoz/signoz.io: data/docs/logs-management/send-logs/nodejs-pino-logs.mdx

---
date: 2024-12-07
title: Send logs from Node.js Pino without requiring Otel collectors to SigNoz Cloud and Self-hosted
id: nodejs-pino-logs
---

## Overview

This document explains how to configure Pino to stream Node.js application logs directly to your SigNoz dashboard.
<Tabs>
<TabItem value="cloud" label="SigNoz Cloud" default>

### Step 1. Install the necessary packages:

```bash
npm i pino-opentelemetry-transport
```

### Step 2. Configure Pino Logger

> Add the following code to your application:

Reviewer: Where should this code be added and what is this code for ? Please mention this explicitly.
Ref old comment: [here](https://github.com/SigNoz/signoz-web/pull/1033#discussion_r1903634325)

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="js" label="JavaScript">
```jsx
const pino = require('pino');

const transport = pino.transport({
  target: 'pino-opentelemetry-transport'
});

const logger = pino(transport);

logger.info('Hello, World! from pino');
```
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="ts" label="TypeScript">
```ts
import pino from 'pino';

const transport = pino.transport({
  target: 'pino-opentelemetry-transport'
});

const logger = pino(transport);

logger.info('Hello, World! from pino');
```
</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Step 2. Run Your Application

Execute your application with OpenTelemetry Environment variables:

```Bash
OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_HEADERS="signoz-ingestion-key=<your-ingestion-key>" OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_LOGS_ENDPOINT=https://ingest.<region>.signoz.cloud:443/v1/logs OTEL_RESOURCE_ATTRIBUTES="service.name=<service_name>,service.version=1.2.3" node app.js
```
- Set the `<region>` to match your SigNoz Cloud [region](https://signoz.io/docs/ingestion/signoz-cloud/overview/#endpoint)

> - Replace `<your-ingestion-key>` with your SigNoz [ingestion key](https://signoz.io/docs/ingestion/signoz-cloud/keys/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Replace `<your-ingestion-key>` with your SigNoz [ingestion key](https://signoz.io/docs/ingestion/signoz-cloud/keys/)
```

    />
<figcaption>
<i>
Severity Level: ERROR
</i>
</figcaption>
</figure>

## Output

After successful implementation, your logs will appear in your SigNoz Logs section where you can:

- Monitor logs in [real-time](https://signoz.io/docs/product-features/logs-explorer/#live-view)
- [Filter logs](https://signoz.io/docs/userguide/logs_query_builder/) by level and custom attributes
- Search through log contents
- Create [alerts based on log](https://signoz.io/docs/alerts-management/log-based-alerts/) patterns
- Visualize log trends and patterns

<figure data-zoomable align="left">
    <img
        src="/img/docs/logs-management/send-logs/nodejs-pino-logs.png"
        alt="Node.js Pino Logs"
    />
<figcaption>
<i>
Node.js Pino Logs in SigNoz
</i>
</figcaption>
</figure>

## Troubleshooting
If logs are not appearing in SigNoz:

1. Verify your Ingestion Keys and endpoint URL
2. Ensure the transport is properly configured
3. Review SigNoz Logs Section filters
4. Check Pino log level settings

## Additional Resources

- [Pino OpenTelemetry Transport](https://github.com/pinojs/pino-opentelemetry-transport)

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="self-hosted" label="Self-hosted SigNoz">

> ## Prerequisites

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> - Self-hosted SigNoz instance

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Let's remove this since we have the self-host tab, and the user should be able to understand that they need to follow these instructions if they are using Self-Hosted SigNoz.

---
date: 2024-12-07
title: Send logs from Node.js Pino without requiring Otel collectors to SigNoz Cloud and Self-hosted
id: nodejs-pino-logs
---

## Overview

> This guide demonstrates how to configure Pino to send logs directly to SigNoz Cloud or Self-hosted SigNoz without using OpenTelemetry collectors. Following this documentation will enable you to stream your Node.js application logs directly to your SigNoz dashboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document explains how to configure Pino to stream Node.js application logs directly to your SigNoz dashboard.
```

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="cloud" label="SigNoz Cloud" default>

> **Here's a quick summary of what we will be doing in this guide**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Lets remove this section.

> * Create Node.js application with pino logger

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> * Configure pino logger to send logs to SigNoz Cloud

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> * Send and Visualize the logs in SigNoz Cloud

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Prerequisites

> Before starting ensure you have:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

We can directly write the pre-requisites since this section is titled as Prerequisites

> - A SigNoz Cloud account with active subscription

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Since this is under SigNoz Cloud Tab, we can skip saying to signup for SigNoz Cloud.

> - Access to your SigNoz Cloud:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

We will mention this in the step where we are using the ingestion key.

>     - Ingestion endpoint URL

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>     - Ingestion Key

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> * See [SigNoz Cloud Configuration Guide](https://signoz.io/docs/ingestion/signoz-cloud/keys/) for details on finding your ingestion URL and access token

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

We will mention this in the step where we are using the ingestion key.

> ## Required Dependencies

Reviewer: Let use this as Step 1 of the Setup.

Install the necessary packages:

```bash
npm i pino-opentelemetry-transport
```

## Setup

### Step 1. Configure Pino Logger

> ```jsx

Reviewer: Just above the code block, can you explain in brief:
- What this code block will do
- Where should the user put this code block? Should they create a new file called `tracing.js` in the root directory or something else.

> //tracing.js

Reviewer: Will this file work if someone is using typescript ? If yes, please mention this. If not, please create 2 tabs one for `js` and another for `ts`

const pino = require('pino')

const transport = pino.transport({
  target: 'pino-opentelemetry-transport'
})

const logger = pino(transport)

module.exports = logger
```

### Step 2. Configure Application Logging

> ```jsx

Reviewer: Just above the code block, can you explain in brief:

- What this code block will do
- If this is an example file, please mention it and explain what this example is doing.

//app.js
const logger = require('./tracing');

// Basic logging
logger.info('Hello, World! from pino');

// Structured logging with metadata
logger.info('User authentication', {
    userId: 'user123',
    action: 'login',
    timestamp: new Date().toISOString()
});

// Error handling example
try {
    throw new Error('Something went wrong');
} catch (error) {
    logger.error({
        msg: 'Error occurred',
        error: error.message,
        stack: error.stack
    });
}
```

### Step 3. Run Your Application

> Execute your application with the SigNoz access token:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Execute your application with OpenTelemetry Environment variables:
```

```jsx

> OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_HEADERS="signoz-access-token=your_signoz_ingestion_token" OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_LOGS_ENDPOINT=https://ingest.{region}.signoz.cloud:443/v1/logs OTEL_RESOURCE_ATTRIBUTES="service.name=my-service,service.version=1.2.3" node -r ./tracing.js app.js

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_HEADERS="signoz-ingestion-key=<your-ingestion-key>" OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_LOGS_ENDPOINT=https://ingest.<region>.signoz.cloud:443/v1/logs OTEL_RESOURCE_ATTRIBUTES="service.name=<service_name>,service.version=1.2.3" node -r ./tracing.js app.js
```

```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Set the <region> to match your SigNoz Cloud [region](https://signoz.io/docs/ingestion/signoz-cloud/overview/#endpoint)
- Replace <your-ingestion-key> with your SigNoz [ingestion key](https://signoz.io/docs/ingestion/signoz-cloud/keys/).
- <service_name> is name of your service
```

> ## Usage Examples

Reviewer: What is this section doing? Is it an example?

Author: I'll add Few screenshots and explain briefly about "warn" and "error"

### Basic Logging

```jsx
logger.info('Server started on port 3000');
logger.warn('High memory usage detected');
logger.error('Failed to process request');
```

## Output

> After successful implementation, your logs will appear in your SigNoz Cloud dashboard where you can:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After successful implementation, your logs will appear in your SigNoz Logs section where you can:
```

> - Monitor logs in real-time

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Monitor logs in [real-time](https://signoz.io/docs/product-features/logs-explorer/#live-view)
```

> - Filter logs by level and custom attributes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Filter logs](https://signoz.io/docs/userguide/logs_query_builder/) by level and custom attributes
```

> - Search through log contents

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Search](https://signoz.io/docs/product-features/logs-explorer/#search) through log contents
```

> - Create alerts based on log patterns

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Create [alerts based on log](https://signoz.io/docs/alerts-management/log-based-alerts/) patterns
```

- Visualize log trends and patterns

{/* Image placeholder - in a real MDX file, you'd use an import or relative path */}
{/* <img src="/path/to/screenshot.png" alt="SigNoz Dashboard Log View" /> */}

<figure data-zoomable align="left">
    <img
        src="/img/docs/logs-management/send-logs/nodejs-pino-logs-cloud.png"
        alt="Node.js Pino Logs"
    />
<figcaption>
<i>

> Node.js Pino Logs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Node.js Pino Logs in SigNoz
```

</i>
</figcaption>
</figure>

> *Log from SigNoz dashboard*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Caption is already added in the above image.

## Troubleshooting
If logs are not appearing in SigNoz:

1. Verify your Ingestion Keys and endpoint URL
2. Ensure the transport is properly configured

> 3. Review SigNoz dashboard filters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Review SigNoz Logs Section filters
```

4. Check Pino log level settings

## Additional Resources

- [Pino OpenTelemetry Transport](https://github.com/pinojs/pino-opentelemetry-transport)

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="self-hosted" label="Self-hosted SigNoz">

> **Here's a quick summary of what we will be doing in this guide**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> * Create Node.js application with pino logger

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> * Containerize the application

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> * If your using Kubernetes, create a deployment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> * Send and Visualize the logs in Self-hosted SigNoz

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Prerequisites

> Before starting ensure you have:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> * Your Self-hosted SigNoz is ready

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Self-hosted SigNoz instance
```

> * See [Self-hosted SigNoz Configuration Guide for docker](https://signoz.io/docs/install/docker/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Let's hyperlink this in the step where we are telling the user to use docker **if needed**

> * See [Self-hosted SigNoz Configuration Guide for kubernetes](https://signoz.io/docs/install/kubernetes/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Let's hyperlink this in the step where we are telling the user to use Kubernetes **if needed**

> ## Required Dependencies

Reviewer: Let use this as Step 1 of the Setup.

Install the necessary packages:

```bash
npm i pino-opentelemetry-transport
```

## Setup

### Step 1. Configure Pino Logger

> ```jsx

Reviewer: Just above the code block, can you explain in brief:
- What this code block will do
- Where should the user put this code block? Should they create a new file called `tracing.js` in the root directory or something else.

//tracing.js
const pino = require('pino')

const transport = pino.transport({
  target: 'pino-opentelemetry-transport'
})

const logger = pino(transport)

module.exports = logger
```

### Step 2. Configure Application Logging

> ```jsx

Reviewer: Just above the code block, can you explain in brief:

- What this code block will do
- If this is an example file, please mention it and explain what this example is doing.

//app.js
const logger = require('./tracing');

// Basic logging
logger.info('Logs from pino');

// Structured logging with metadata
logger.info('User authentication', {
    userId: 'user123',
    action: 'login',
    timestamp: new Date().toISOString()
});

// Error handling example
try {
    throw new Error('Something went wrong');
} catch (error) {
    logger.error({
        msg: 'Error occurred',
        error: error.message,
        stack: error.stack
    });
}
```

> ### Step 3. Containerize the application

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

As discussed, let's remove this section since it is not a general step.

Create a Dockerfile for your application:
```Dockerfile
# Dockerfile
FROM node:16-alpine

# Create app directory
WORKDIR /usr/src/app

# Install dependencies
COPY package*.json ./
RUN npm install

# Copy application code
COPY tracing.js ./
COPY app.js ./

# Set environment variables (can be overridden in Kubernetes deployment)
ENV OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_LOGS_PROTOCOL=grpc
ENV OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_LOGS_ENDPOINT=http://otel-collector:4317
ENV OTEL_RESOURCE_ATTRIBUTES=service.name=pino-service,service.version=1.0.0,deployment.environment=production

# Command to run the application
CMD ["node", "app.js"]
```

> ### Step 2. Run with Docker

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
As discussed, let's remove this section since it is not a general step.

```bash
docker build -t my-pino-app .
docker run -d my-pino-app
```

> ### Step 3. Deploy to Kubernetes (Optional)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

As discussed, let's remove this section since it is not a general step.

* Create a deployment and add the environment variables using either ConfigMap or Secrets based on your security requirements
```yaml
# deployment.yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: pino-logger
  labels:
    app: pino-logger
spec:
  replicas: 1
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: pino-logger
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: pino-logger
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: pino-logger
        image: your-registry/your-image:latest
        imagePullPolicy: Always
        env:
        - name: OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_LOGS_PROTOCOL
          value: 'grpc'
        - name: OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_LOGS_ENDPOINT
          value: 'http://<service-name>.<namespace>.svc.cluster.local:4317'
        - name: OTEL_RESOURCE_ATTRIBUTES
          value: 'service.name=pino-logger,service.version=1.0.0'

```

> ## Usage Examples

Reviewer: Please explain what the content of this section will do.

### Basic Logging

```jsx
logger.info('Server started on port 3000');
logger.warn('High memory usage detected');
logger.error('Failed to process request');
```

## Output

> After successful implementation, your logs will appear in your Self-hosted SigNoz dashboard where you can:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After successful implementation, your logs will appear in your SigNoz Logs Section where you can:
```

> - Monitor logs in real-time

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Monitor logs in [real-time](https://signoz.io/docs/product-features/logs-explorer/#live-view)
```

> - Filter logs by level and custom attributes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Filter logs](https://signoz.io/docs/userguide/logs_query_builder/) by level and custom attributes
```

> - Search through log contents

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Search](https://signoz.io/docs/product-features/logs-explorer/#search) through log contents
```

> - Create alerts based on log patterns

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  Create [alerts based on log](https://signoz.io/docs/alerts-management/log-based-alerts/) patterns
```

- Visualize log trends and patterns

<figure data-zoomable align="left">
    <img
        src="/img/docs/logs-management/send-logs/nodejs-pino-logs-self-hosted.png"
        alt="Node.js Pino Logs"
    />
<figcaption>
<i>

> Log from SigNoz dashboard

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Node.js Pino Logs in SigNoz
```

</i>
</figcaption>
</figure>

## Troubleshooting

If logs are not appearing in SigNoz:

1. Verify endpoint URL
2. Ensure the transport is properly configured

> 3. Review SigNoz dashboard filters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Review SigNoz Logs Section filters
```
